1.3.1 Concept of Python Convertor
We have successfully designed a convertor application which converts the csv files
in the text formats; it is very necessary and important to create a convertor for the
datasets, as loading the csv files directly will result in crashing the programme.

 Since, the data in python cannot be sent directly in buffer therefore, we create an
iterator which will go over the rows, one by one.

 A lot of rows have missing values, and other values such as N/A

 We clean it using the equality check for ‘Not a Number (nan)’

 We drop the rows, using our program that contains these values

1.3.2 Concept of MapReduce Framework
Hadoop MapReduce is a software framework for easily writing applications which
process vast amounts of data (multi-terabyte data-sets) in-parallel on large clusters
(thousands of nodes) of commodity hardware in a reliable, fault-tolerant manner. A
MapReducejob usually splits the input data-set into independent chunks which are
processed by themap tasks in a completely parallel manner. The framework sorts the
outputs of the maps, which are then input to thereduce tasks. Typically both the input
and the output of the job are stored in a file-system. The framework takes care of
scheduling tasks, monitoring them and re-executes the failed tasks.
Typically the compute nodes and the storage nodes are the same, that is, the MapReduce
framework and the Hadoop Distributed File System (see HDFS Architecture Guide) are
running on the same set of nodes.

1.3.3 Concept Of Big Data

Twentieth-century airplanes generated a lot of data — about the engine systems, fuel use,
crew activity, and even weather systems they encountered. But airlines and airports had
little to no capability to do much of anything with it, and most of the information could
not even be transmitted in real time.
Today, through thousands of sensors and sophisticated digitized systems, the newest
generation of jets collects exponentially more, with each flight generating more than 30
times the amount of data the previous generation of wide-bodied jets produced. While
currently only about onetenth of the global fleet is made up of these technologically
advanced aircraft, in a decademore than halfof it will be. By 2026, annual data
generation should reach 98 billion gigabytes, or 98 million terabytes, according to a 2016
estimate by Oliver Wyman. The newest generation aircraft by then will be spewing out
between five and eight terabytes per flight, up to 80 times what older planes today
generate.
